Add different ways to call sc documentation. (#71)
massalabs/massa-docs: web3-dev/smart-contracts/sc-execution.rst

> ======================
> Smart contract execution
> ======================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
========================
Smart contract execution
========================
```

Introduction
============

In Massa you can execute smart contracts not only deploy and call.
There is different possibilities to execute smart contracts in different contexts.
This documentation will explain you the different possibilities and how to use them.
You can choose the one that match the most your usecase.

All of this way to execute smart contracts are available in the smart contract sdk `massa-web3 <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-web3>`_.

Differents ways to execute smart contracts
==========================================

Operation execute smart contract
--------------------------------

> This operation allow you to send a smart contract that will be executed on the blockchain (not stored) and can perform all the states changes as a normal smart contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation allow you to send a smart contract that will be executed on the blockchain (not stored) and can perform all the state changes as a normal smart contract.
```

It's often the best way to deploy an other smart contract using the operation datastore of the execute operation.
Our `deployer <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-sc-toolkit/blob/main/packages/sc-deployer/src/index.ts>`_ use this operation to deploy smart contracts.

Operation call smart contact
----------------------------

This operation allow you to call the function of a smart contract that exists on the blockchain with specific parameters and coins.

An `example <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-web3#smart-contract-read-and-write-calls>`_ using massa-web3 will show you how to make call smart contract in JS/TS/NodeJS.

> Read only execute and calls smart contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read only execute and call smart contract
```

------------------------------------------

> You can also execute or calls smart contracts in read only mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also execute or call smart contracts in read only mode.
```

> Read only execute will execute the smart-contract as a normal execution but not in a block and so all the state changes and events will be returned to you instead of being applied in the blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read only execute will execute the smart contract as a normal execution but not in a block and so all the state changes and events will be returned to you instead of being applied in the blockchain.
```

> This can help you estimate the cost of a future operation or the state changes it will implies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can help you estimate the cost of a future operation or the state changes it will imply.
```

============

In Massa, you can execute arbitrary smart contracts. You are not limited to the classic way of deploying and then
calling that contract. There are different possibilities how to execute smart contracts depending on the context. This
documentation will explain you different possibilities and how to use them. You can choose the one that most matches
your use-case.

You can find examples for the different ways to execute smart contracts in the smart contract 
sdk `massa-web3 <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-web3>`_.

Different ways to execute smart contracts
=========================================

"Execute Smart Contract" operation
----------------------------------

This operation allows to send a smart contract that will be executed on the blockchain (not stored), that can perform
all the state changes as a normal smart contract.
It's often the best way to deploy an other smart contract using the operation datastore of the execute operation.
Our `deployer <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-sc-toolkit/blob/main/packages/sc-deployer/src/index.ts>`_
uses this operation to deploy smart contracts.

"Call Smart Contract" operation
-------------------------------

> This operation allow you to call the function of a smart contract that exists

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This operation allows you to call the function of a smart contract that exists
```

on the blockchain with specific parameters and coins.

An `example <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-web3#smart-contract-read-and-write-calls>`_ in massa-web3
shows you how to make the call smart-contract operation in JS/TS/NodeJS.

Read-only Execute and Call Smart Contract
-----------------------------------------

> You can also execute or call smart contracts in read-only mode.
> Read-only execute will execute a smart contract, as in any normal execution, but not store it in a block. Therefore, all
> state changes and events will be returned to you, instead of being applied (stored) in the blockchain.
> This can help you estimate the cost of a future operation, or the state changes it will imply.
> For example, it can provide information about a smart contract, as well as its storage content.
> 
> An `example <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-web3#smart-contract-read-and-write-calls>`_ using massa-web3
> will show you how to make read-only calls and read-only execute of a smart contract in JS/TS/NodeJS.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. All
```
```suggestion
Read-only execute will "dry-run" a smart contract, i.e. execute as per normal, emitting its effects which can be read, but without propagating them into a block. 

Useful use-cases can include: 

- "Dry-running" future operations to estimate what their costs will be, and the state changes they imply
- Obtaining information on a smart contract, including its current state and stored data

A concrete example using JS/TS/NodeJS compatible with the massa-web3 environment can be found `here <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-web3#smart-contract-read-and-write-calls>`_ 
```

Reviewer: Thanks! I just changed last sentence into 'A concrete example using massa-web3 library compatible with JS/TS/NodeJS can be found'

========================

> Smart contract execution

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Smart-contract execution
```

========================

Introduction
============

> In Massa you can execute arbitrary smart contracts, you are not limited to deploy and then call the smart contract.
> There is different possibilities to execute smart contracts in different contexts.
> This documentation will explain you the different possibilities and how to use them.
> You can choose the one that match the most your usecase.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In Massa, you can execute arbitrary smart contracts. You are not limited to the classic way of deploying and then calling that contract.
There are different possibilities how to execute smart contracts depending on the context.
This documentation will explain you different possibilities and how to use them.
You can choose the one that most matches your use-case.
```

> You can choose the one that match the most your usecase.

Reviewer 2: Chapter is meant as paragraph here (I believe).

I think it lacks a bit of context. You could do something like this:
> Massa introduces more options when it comes to meeting different requirements for execution contexts. <something about not being limited to deployment>.
quoting Ben here.

> There is examples for the differents ways to execute smart contracts available

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are examples for the different ways to execute smart contracts available
```

Reviewer 4: You can find examples for the different ways to execute smart contracts

in the smart contract sdk `massa-web3 <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-web3>`_.

Differents ways to execute smart contracts
==========================================

> Operation execute smart contract

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Operation: execute smart contract
```

Reviewer 4: "Execute Smart Contract" operation

--------------------------------

> This operation allow you to send a smart contract that will be executed on the blockchain
> (not stored) and can perform all the state changes as a normal smart contract.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This operation allows to send a smart contract that will be executed on the blockchain
(not stored), that can perform all the state changes as a normal smart contract.
```

Reviewer 4: + add an explanation what executed SC can do as a normal SC would.

It's often the best way to deploy an other smart contract using the operation datastore of the execute operation.
Our `deployer <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-sc-toolkit/blob/main/packages/sc-deployer/src/index.ts>`_

> uses this operation to deploy smart contracts.

Reviewer 4: This needs to be rewritten. I don't fully understand this sentence: 

''It's often the best way to deploy an other smart contract using the operation datastore of the execute operation.'' -> 
Why? - do I save gas this way? 
Why is it better? 
Do we explain operation datastore before this paragraph/section?

Author: Yes it's better because it use less gas and it's more flexible to deploy multiple smart-contracts.

There is no current docs on operation datastore we should add one page on this

> Operation call smart contact

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Operation: call smart contact
```

Reviewer 4: "Call Smart Contract" operation

----------------------------

This operation allow you to call the function of a smart contract that exists
on the blockchain with specific parameters and coins.

An `example <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-web3#smart-contract-read-and-write-calls>`_ in massa-web3

> show you how to make call smart contract in JS/TS/NodeJS.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
shows you how to make the call smart-contract operation in JS/TS/NodeJS.
```

> Read only execute and call smart contract

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Read-only Execute and Call Smart Contract
```

------------------------------------------

> You can also execute or call smart contracts in read only mode.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can also execute or call smart contracts in read-only mode.
```

> Read only execute will execute the smart contract as a normal execution but not in a block and so all
> the state changes and events will be returned to you instead of being applied in the blockchain.
> This can help you estimate the cost of a future operation or the state changes it will imply.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Rea- only execute will execute a smart contract, as in any normal execution, but not store it in a block. Therefore, all state changes and events will be returned to you, instead of being applied (stored) in the blockchain.
This can help you estimate the cost of a future operation, or the state changes it will imply.
```

Reviewer 4: very good description @AurelienFT !

> For example, it can allow to get some information or values from a smart contract and/or his storage.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, it can allow to retrieve some information, or values from a smart contract and/or his storage.
```

An `example <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-web3#smart-contract-read-and-write-calls>`_ using massa-web3

> will show you how to make read-only calls and execute of smart contract in JS/TS/NodeJS.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
will show you how to make read-only calls, and execute smart contract in JS/TS/NodeJS.
```

Reviewer: no I suggest
```suggestion
will show you how to make read-only calls and read-only execute of a smart contract in JS/TS/NodeJS.
```
because the example works for call and execute operations in read-only mode

> will show you how to make read-only calls and execute of smart contract in JS/TS/NodeJS.

Reviewer: read only because it will not persist onto the blockchain the state changes nor the emitted events

yes you use JS/TS/NodeJS to perform a read only call or a readonly execution

> Call in smart contract sdk

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Call in Smart-contract SDK```

--------------------------

You can call a smart contract from the code of an other one. You can pass arbitrary parameters and
coins to the called smart contract.

> This can be done using the `call` function of the smart contract Assembly script sdk. You can find an example

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This can be done using the `call` function of the smart-contract Assembly Script SDK. You can find an example
```

Reviewer: yes thanks

`here <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-sc-examples/blob/main/games/tictactoe/smart-contract/assembly/main.ts>`_

> Local call in smart contract sdk

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Local Call in Smart Contract SDK
```

--------------------------------

> As the call function, you can also call a smart contract from the code of an other
> one but execute it in your current context.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As the call function, you can also call a smart contract from the code of an other
one, but execute it in your current context.
```

> For example if the smart contract called use the function
> from the sdk `Storage.set(key, value)` the value will be set in the storage of the smart contract
> that call the other one and not in the storage of the called smart contract.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example if the called smart contract uses the SDK function `Storage.set(key, value)`, the value will be set in the storage of the smart contract that made the call. The storage of the called smart contract won't be affected. 
```

Reviewer 4: check if my suggestion makes sense @AurelienFT

Reviewer: good!

========================
Smart contract execution
========================

Introduction
============

> In Massa you can execute smart contracts not only deploy and call.

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence is confusing.

Author: I have written it again. Tell me if it's better

There is different possibilities to execute smart contracts in different contexts.
This documentation will explain you the different possibilities and how to use them.
You can choose the one that match the most your usecase.

> All of this way to execute smart contracts are available

Reviewer 2: Not understandable as it is.

Author: I have written it again. Tell me if it's better

in the smart contract sdk `massa-web3 <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-web3>`_.

Differents ways to execute smart contracts
==========================================

Operation execute smart contract
--------------------------------

This operation allow you to send a smart contract that will be executed on the blockchain
(not stored) and can perform all the state changes as a normal smart contract.
It's often the best way to deploy an other smart contract using the operation datastore of the execute operation.
Our `deployer <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-sc-toolkit/blob/main/packages/sc-deployer/src/index.ts>`_

> use this operation to deploy smart contracts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
uses this operation to deploy smart contracts.
```

Operation call smart contact
----------------------------

This operation allow you to call the function of a smart contract that exists
on the blockchain with specific parameters and coins.

> An `example <https://github.com/massalabs/massa-web3#smart-contract-read-and-write-calls>`_ using massa-web3 will

Reviewer 2: English can be improved.

Author: I have written it again. Tell me if it's better

show you how to make call smart contract in JS/TS/NodeJS.

Read only execute and call smart contract
------------------------------------------

You can also execute or call smart contracts in read only mode.
Read only execute will execute the smart contract as a normal execution but not in a block and so all
the state changes and events will be returned to you instead of being applied in the blockchain.
This can help you estimate the cost of a future operation or the state changes it will imply.

> Read only calls will execute the smart contract function and return the result without any state changes also.

Reviewer 2: It's written just above, no ?

Author: Yes Removed.
